now Curtis here from ask the pool guy
answering a question that we received on
her blog
well the question is how do I know when
it's time to change the sound of the
filter easiest way to find out that out
is if you're having issues with the
water not staying clear water clarity is
everything what happens is as the sand
which the water travels down to the sand
as the debris gets trapped in the sand
it gets trapped in layers and each time
you backwash out you're getting a lot of
the surface debris out but not
necessarily the layers of debris that
are further down so what happens is the
filter plugs up and as the water comes
into the filter it tends to go around
the edges that's called channeling where
it'll lead to the create channels
through the sand or it'll go down to the
edge and back out and never get filtered
so first off would be is your water
Claire Claire tea not good and you can't
seem to get it to be clean any
clarifiers doesn't seem to help that
type of things happening and for
whatever reason you're not getting good
clarity that's your number one the other
thing that you could do if that's not an
issue but you're still concerned would
be disassemble a filter and take a look
at the sand for the better sand and if
it looks like it's solid across the top
and the edges are rounded down when you
look into the tank on the edges you'll
see it rounded down that'll tell you
that it's certainly time to change the
sand because you've got this channeling
issue and channeling is literally the
water is traveling through the filter
without going through the sand and just
returning back to the pool another
possibility would be if you're vacuuming
and you're getting debris shooting back
up back into the pool you're getting a
cloud that's another indicator that
something's wrong the filter and the
water is not traveling through the sand
so any one of those three scenarios
almost guaranteed the sand changes in
order there's occasionally times where
you could certainly scoop the surface of
the sand off and replace that but if
you're into the filter you're better off
it's far more efficient to just replace
the entire Bennis and one of the common
questions we get this one all the time
is how long should the sand last a my
filter before I replace it now years ago
when I first got involved in the
business about 25 years ago we would
recommend every 10 to 12 13 years to
replace this and now we found it's way
more efficient to change it three to
five years but no
than that changing the sand every year
does not help the efficiency literally
the filter gets more efficient over the
first couple of years because the better
the st. the sand settles in really
nicely but after three to five is
typically a good time to replace but
again don't do it any more often they
need to I'm kind of a believer in if it
ain't broke don't fix it kind of a
mentality however five years tops and
then go ahead and place it